were you told that inflation was coming
down well it's been a while and here we
are today still dealing with the same
old thing you're going to read the news
they're going to tell you that inflation
is doing better you don't have to worry
it's starting to slow down and yet at
the same time the Federal Reserve has
one option and that is to keep interest
rates elevated or else they gotta
explain themselves in today's video
we're going to look at what happened
with inflation I'll show you the month
over month changes I'm going to give you
an explanation as to what's going on
between the year over year and the month
over month that's the big distinction
and then we have to look at some other
detail of why is this happening in the
first place all of that and more let's
begin you came here for the truth so let
me unveil that for you we'll look at
inflation as a measure of the different
prices price inflation that's what we
talk about because that's what people
experience you could look at something
like true inflation all right right and
they say by the way right now 2.62
percent in the United States please
anybody out there tell me that your
inflation rate is 2.62 percent still I
am not I am not agreeing with that we
can look at Shadow stats depending on
the calculation 1980s way the 1990s way
these show a different stat I like to
take these numbers myself and actually
start to price it out in terms of the
services and the goods that I buy year
over year over year and when you do that
you generally don't find anything goes
down if it's something that's supposed
to be temporary like when the airlines
put the gas tax on oh gas prices have
gone up the oil prices have gone up we
need to put a little tax on yet the oil
prices can go down into the negative and
you're still not going to get that
you're still gonna have to pay that fee
of course and so what we have right now
is this weird really strange Dynamic and
that leads me to what I wrote about not
that long ago so here we are have it
it's a video from August 11th and it's
about inflation just flipping and so now
we are here a month later the new data
has come out but at that time I wrote on
July 18th 2023 I said on a month over
month basis we could start to see
increases now it has happened as the
favorable year-over-year effect is over
all right and so that's exactly what we
have
two months in a row that trend has
continued is it because you know I
happen to have access to information
that's not out there that's not known no
if you're willing to accept the truth
then the information is there but
unfortunately people are not look it's
better to sell you on something to get
you on a bandwagon to tell you that oh
you don't have to worry because you're
going to get a 50 discount on your real
estate so just hang on just wait
we can do that all day long or we can
simply accept the truth if you choose to
accept truth well then you're in the
right place hit that thumbs up if you do
agree that's what you want if you want
the truth I'm going to show you this the
uh right here the U.S consumer price
index for August rolls 3.7 from a year
ago and of course we look at these
numbers does it make sense 3.7 for you
maybe not right all depends the point
here is that when we start looking at it
and breaking it down why are we in these
circumstances today looking at the month
over month it increased yes absolutely
0.6 percent when we look at it in terms
of the year over year certainly we are
way down from the peak but looking at
this it has started to come up multiple
months in a row and so that's what I
talked about a few months ago I told
everybody so anybody that was here we
knew this was happening and I'm tracking
this and so those who are subscribed
will get all these details as it comes
around
I'm able to track and detail this
information because I look at Raw data I
do not watch any any at all any YouTube
I do not watch any newscast I I don't
know any of them at all I only look at
Raw data this is very time consuming
this can be very tedious and boring
however there is no bias to the data
because I'm looking at it from all
different sources I'll get it from one
part of the spectrum and the other I
don't care I want raw data and then I
will make those decisions for myself and
I present that to you okay look you have
the transparent uh transport drove most
of the monthly CPI rise okay and that's
where we are at right now but I want to
note something as well shelter is the
biggest component of when we talk about
inflation shelter makes up the biggest
component so a small change in shelter
could have a dramatic impact on that but
in the short term what we are seeing
with the rise in gasoline prices was the
one that certainly hit hard for a lot of
people I have a few points that I need
you to know look if inflation Rises
which stocks will hurt the most can you
take a guess
right and which ones will benefit we'll
talk about that in a second I want you
to know that the hope of inflation
falling is all based on shelter that's
the long-term thing we need the shelter
CPI how much it costs for your house in
terms of rent mortgage these things need
to fall in order for inflation to fall
do you think that's going to happen I
know there's a lot of YouTubers making a
lot of money talking about that
you tell me I'm interested to hear what
you have to say oil major contributor to
the volatility right now and we'll talk
more about that in a second I want to
show you it in fact looking at this this
is the feds one of their favorite
indicators looking at the CPI less
shelter so when you pull that shelter
out still Rising month over month and so
of course the year over year now because
that favorable year-over-year effect had
gone away they were trying to ride that
as long as possible but now here we are
and so this is just a breakdown of
looking at inflation because of course
it's made up of different components
certainly energy was the one that has
been increasing recently
um and that that inflation by the way is
everywhere it's not just the United
States I just want to make note of that
one extreme example being Argentina
imagine you're worried about a 0.6
percent of your inflation and in
Argentina the month over month is
12.4
Argentina's annual inflation rate Rose
to
124 percent
that's just wild and to think that I was
making videos about Argentina years ago
when the inflation rate was much lower
and I was maybe let's say 15 20 and I
was saying watch out this thing is going
to explode be very careful some were
disagreeing it is so obvious that once
inflation goes you can't stop it it's
off that cliff and there's nothing else
but gravity that's going to come and
take that down we need to look at what
is the linchpin what is that one key
component
fed on alert for one more hike after
disappointing inflation so of course the
Federal Reserve we've got this meeting
coming up are they going to increase are
they going to just wait it out the
markets were previously saying no no
they're gonna wait this one out in
September if they do increase markets
I'm telling you right now are not going
to like it because that means they're
even further away from the cuts that
they've been praying on you're probably
asking yourself which stocks benefit
which stocks are going to get hurt I'm
going to show you that in a second from
now just understand that this is all
hinging on the federal reserve's actions
here we have the current oil price as as
I record this video it is inching closer
to ninety dollars a barrel for WTI and
by the way the spread in between WTI and
Brent seems to have a shrank over the
last little while the point here is oil
gasoline these are something we just
can't get rid of and right now that is
putting the pressure on everything
everything's moving One Direction
whether it's short-term travel or longer
term it's got to move and in this way
it's becoming more expensive to do so
this inflationary hopes pinned on
shelter CPI falling shelters fall needs
to accelerate to bring uh you know the
headline CPI down I I really don't know
about that and whether that's going to
happen because have you seen rent prices
have you seen the price of a home today
it's really not going down anywhere for
the most part and we see that some
places it has risen from you know this
little dip that was experienced I know
we're being told about the Airbnb bubble
I know we are told about the fact that
in some cases like Toronto it's the
biggest bubble in the entire world but
are you going to experience a major
decline in the prices it all depends on
what happens with interest rates and the
way to exact the most damage is of
course with inflation not deflation
because the middle class
and the um you know everybody in the
lower incomes deflation is just going to
help them it's just going to help them
they're not going to be hurt by this but
the you know the upper classes the one
percent and greater they love inflation
they will only love it and so we have to
understand who the Federal Reserve
really is
what about that truth are you willing to
accept it most people aren't
inflation re-acceleration would narrow
The Tech versus energy gap okay so very
uh clear right now to see that tech
stocks would be the ones to have
potentially hit be hit the hardest under
these circumstances at the same time
energy could increase over time here if
we get more gasoline if we've got more
increases in the oil prices natural gas
what have you then energy makes up a
bigger component to tech stocks would
then be a little bit weaker as a result
okay so it doesn't mean they're gonna
crash I'm not saying that I'm just
saying you know relative perspective
here so more money could flow into
um energy over the next little while and
actually it's been doing that as we go I
want to make it very clear like what can
you do about all this first things first
first things first all right invest in
the things that are going up in price I
know that seems so obvious but that's
what you got to do you got to understand
this you can't just look at the price of
oil and say all right it's going up
gasoline's going up I'm screwed no you
can invest in that if you think
agriculture is going up if you think
anything is going to go up you buy some
of it because then it balances it out
now I'm not telling you to buy it okay
you got to look at this more
fundamentally and also maybe the
technicals could play a role in that but
I'm just telling you if you think
something is going to go up then buy in
people were telling uh the YouTubers
were telling people the dollar cost
average at the same time telling them
the stock market was likely to continue
falling this is throughout 2020. the
people's portfolios because they were
going in you know heavy on all these uh
fun stocks they were dropping by 40 50
percent just all that money just being
burned if you knew that why would you
pour your money in at that moment if you
thought one month later the stock market
would be higher okay sure you put your
money in there's going to be ups and
downs but if you thought okay in a month
from now it's going to be up okay you
put your money in you don't need to time
it perfectly
that's not the way this works
I think people are just so confused
they're just listening to Tick-Tock
advice and they're they need like which
stock do I need to buy but you got to
tell me in under seven seconds or else I
can't pay attention
uh dear buy in bulk share with others to
get today's price if you thought
something something was available you
know at a later date at a higher price
why not buy it today I understand
there's only so much funds we have but
but just think of that always think of
that very important stuff
understand the idea the Dynamics of
trade partners are shifting and that
affects the supply and demand just you
know a little example for instance if
the United States is supplying oil or
natural gas to Europe but suddenly a new
pipeline from Qatar is open up to Europe
and that essentially solves the problem
they don't have to bring these flotillas
of ships across the ocean well then now
there's less demand coming in this
direction so now the U.S has to find
another buyer for that stuff
so watch that pay attention to it
because it's going to affect companies
profits and the supply and demand of
course affects the prices in general I
hope you appreciate that for information
that's really good stuff okay uh let me
know let me know in the comments I'm
always reading your comments by the way
every single day for many many years
um of course I wanted to mention now
Compass is live to anybody that is on
Discord Compass is live compass is where
you will start your financial Journey
totally free a breakdown I have had
nothing but positive reviews so far all
you got to do is get on the Discord the
link is in the description and then you
will get in under the announcements
section you're going to see the link for
this you click on it you go in there's
no email required there's no nothing you
just click on Discord sign up to the
Discord get in free click on Compass go
through there and then at a later date
I'm going to open it up to the people on
YouTube but for now if you want it
totally free get in there go on Discord
I'll see you there and then the last but
not least the comment of the day Rebecca
was saying this control isn't by
politicians or political parties it's
about corporations CEOs and the wealthy
and Powerful using dark money and
lobbyists to buy and legislators on all
sides in the political system absolutely
you could see uh Rebecca thank you for
that that we have a system that is
completely controlled outside of our
like understanding it's not very obvious
but there's so many layers to this and
that's why you are here because you love
the truth if you found this video
informative hit that Thumbs Up Button of
course I'll see you tomorrow take care